Web-stack
==================


The Frameworks
--------------

This site is built with **jekyllrb**. Site's content is written in **Markdown**
and **HTML** files located inside individual directories. The data throughout
the website is stored in small **YAML** chunks coded inside three dashes (---)
at the beginning of each file. The layout for the site is generated by **Liquid
Layout**.

The */_people/* and */_posts/* contains files that plug into the website as
jekyll's "collections". These files are rendered as news items for *news* page
and profiles for the *people* page.

For further documentation, I highly recoomend Jekyllrb's docs on collections
found at <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/collections/>.

These files are rendered into a static web site at */_site/* directory, which
can be served with a web server such as nginx, or apache.

Futher docs at: <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/structure/>

For a thorough overview of the setup, I highly recommend going through Jekyll's,
Markdown's, Liquid's documentation and YAML's wikipedia page found at:

- [Jekyllrb Documenttion](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/home/)
- [Markdown Homepage](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)
- [Liquid Layout Documentation](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers)
- [YAML's Wikipedia Entry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/YAML)

Setup Instructions
------------------

To get this website up and running, follow the following instructions:

- Clone this repo!
- Install Jekyll (Jekyll's easy setup instructions can be found here: <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/installation/>)
- Have a web server (nginx/apache) up and running.
- Point the website's root directory to */_site/* or copy */_site/* to the server designated root directory.
- Run the jekyll command: *jekyll build* or the script: *update.sh* to update the website located at */_site/*


Updating page content
---------------------

To update content go to individual page directories and edit the individual markdown files.

For example:

> The *news* page is a html file located inside */news/*; the *openings* page
> is a markdown file inside */openings/*.
>
> So if you were to change the way news are rendered, you'd have to tinker
> around with the html and liquid layout at */news/news.html*. If you were to
> change the content of the *openings* page, you'd have to edit the markdown
> file at */openings/*.

Updating profiles
-----------------

The people page is setup with jekyll collections. To add a profile to the site's
people section, go to /_people/ and add a file in the following format:

	---

	name:     [name]

	category: [faculty | grad | undergrad]

	photo:    [filename located at /assets/img/people/]

	website:  [person's website]

	position: [Faculty's position]

	---

	[Content]

*You can skip the 'position' and 'website' data without breaking the actual
website.*

This file is a markdown file. The content inside the dashes is the YAML data and
the remaining [content] outside of the dashes can be written in either plain
HTML or Markdown.

Updating news
-------------

The news section uses jekyll's built in _posts collection. To add a news just
add a markdown file in /_posts/ with the filename in this format:

	YEAR-MONTH-DAY-filename.md

and the file in the following format:

	---

	layout: post

	title: [news's title]

	date: [news's date]

	category: news

	---

	[Content]

*make sure not to skip the 'category: news' metadata, otherwise the post
won't be rendered in site's news section*

Go to <https://jekyllrb.com/docs/posts/> for Jekyllrb's documentation on Writing
Posts
